IK-900: object aware cropping docs (#257)
imagekitio/docs-keep-a-changelog: features/image-transformations/resize-crop-and-other-transformations.md

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

#### Examples - Object aware cropping (maintain-ratio)

We can also provide an object-specific focus to crop the image, ensuring that the object is centered while cropping out the less important parts of the image.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Original" %}

> URL - [https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/car.jpg](https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/car.jpg)

Reviewer: replace with demo account

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

#### Examples - Object aware cropping (cm-extract)

> Instead of specifying the `x`, `y`, `xc` or `xy` coordinates to focus on a particular area, you can also set `fo` value to an object from the [supported list](#supported-object-list), which will intelligently detect `xc`, `yc` values as the center of the provided object and extract the image with the given width and height.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of specifying the `x`, `y`, `xc`, or `yc` coordinates to focus on a particular area, you can also set the `fo` value to an object from the [supported list](#supported-object-list), which will intelligently detect `xc`, `yc` values as the center of the provided object and extract the image with the given width and height.
```

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Original" %}
URL - [https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/car.jpg](https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/car.jpg)

![Original 1920x1280 image](https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/car.jpg)
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="cm-extract (smart crop extract)" %}
URL - [https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/car.jpg?tr=w-600,h-400,fo-car,cm-extract](https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/car.jpg?tr=w-600,h-400,fo-car,cm-extract)

![600x400 image](https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/car.jpg?tr=w-600,h-400,fo-car,cm-extract)

> Here, we have intelligently detected the `xc`, `yc` value as the central coordinates of car and then extracted out an area of 600x400 from that center.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, we have intelligently detected the `xc` and `yc` values as the central coordinates of the car and then extracted out an area of 600x400 from that center.
```

2. `fo-custom` can be used to define a specific focus area when used with [maintain ratio](resize-crop-and-other-transformations.md#maintain-ratio-crop-strategy-c-maintain\_ratio) and [extract crop](resize-crop-and-other-transformations.md#example-focus-using-custom-coordinates).
3. `center`, `top`, `left`, `bottom`, `right`, `top_left`, `top_right`, `bottom_left` and `bottom_right` can be used to define relative cropping during extract crop. [Learn from examples](resize-crop-and-other-transformations.md#examples-center-and-relative-focus).

> You can also provide object from [supported list](#supported-object-list), which allows for intelligent cropping of the image based on the specific objects detected within it. Learn more about object aware cropping [here](#object-aware-cropping).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Apart from above, `fo` parameter also have two additional options that intelligently detect the most important part of an image to create thumbnails i.e. `auto` and `face`. Let's see them in action:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apart from the above, `fo` parameter also supports additional values that intelligently detect the most important part of an image to create thumbnails i.e. `auto` and `face`. Let's see them in action:
```

2. `fo-custom` can be used to define a specific focus area when used with [maintain ratio](resize-crop-and-other-transformations.md#maintain-ratio-crop-strategy-c-maintain\_ratio) and [extract crop](resize-crop-and-other-transformations.md#example-focus-using-custom-coordinates).
3. `center`, `top`, `left`, `bottom`, `right`, `top_left`, `top_right`, `bottom_left` and `bottom_right` can be used to define relative cropping during extract crop. [Learn from examples](resize-crop-and-other-transformations.md#examples-center-and-relative-focus).

> You can also provide object from [supported list](#supported-object-list), which allows for intelligent cropping of the image based on the specific objects detected within it. Learn more about object aware cropping [here](#object-aware-cropping---fo-object-name).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also specify an object from this [supported list](#supported-object-list), which allows for intelligent cropping of the image based on the specific objects detected within it. Learn more about object aware cropping [here](#object-aware-cropping---fo-object-name).
```

**Note:** Smart crop may not give accurate results for some images. This is partially a trade off between speed (needed for real-time transformations) and accuracy.
{% endhint %}

> ### Object aware cropping

Reviewer: This cannot be a level 3 heading. All level 3 headings in this page are in the `${transformation_name} - (${transformation_key})` format.

Better to make it a level 4 heading under `Focus - (fo)` like auto crop and face crop

Author: But it is more relevant,  keeping at level 4  with `fo-auto ` and `fo-face` it will be bit lost case

To automatically provide high focus to a particular object while cropping, you can set the `fo` value to an object from the [supported list](#supported-object-list). This allows for intelligent cropping of the image based on the specific objects detected within it.

It can be used along with [maintain ratio](#examples---object-aware-cropping-maintain-ratio) or [extract crop](#examples---object-aware-cropping-cm-extract) to intelligently crop or extract parts of the image as needed. Learn more from the different examples shown in respective sections.

> As discussed below, we can choose not to provide dimensions and deliver an image that is tightly cropped to the object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can also choose not to provide dimensions and deliver an image that is tightly cropped to the object.
```

We can also specify `aspect ratio` along with the `fo-<object name>` focus option without providing `height` and `width`. This keeps the object in focus but may include more of the image to fit the specified `aspect ratio`.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Original" %}
URL - [https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/car.jpg](https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/car.jpg)

![Original 1920x1280 image](https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/car.jpg)
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Tightly cropped image" %}
URL - [https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/car.jpg?tr=fo-car](https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/car.jpg?tr=fo-car)

![982x301 image](https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/car.jpg?tr=fo-car)

The output is an image containing just car.
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Tightly cropped image with aspect ratio" %}
URL - [https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/car.jpg?tr=fo-car,ar-2_1](https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/car.jpg?tr=fo-car,ar-2_1)

![982x491 image](https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/car.jpg?tr=fo-car,ar-2_1)

The output is an image containing only the car, plus the additional `height` needed to maintain an `aspect ratio` of 2.
{% endtab %}
{% tabs %}

> We can also crop out a particular object of interest out of multiple different objects present in an image.

Reviewer: Isn't this example already covered above?

Reviewer: This example should be merged with the above one. Same example can easily illustrate the two concepts (tight cropping and picking particular object out of multiple)

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Original" %}
URL - [https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/catDog.jpg](https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/catDog.jpg)

![Original 600x336 image](https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/catDog.jpg)
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Cropping dog" %}
URL - [https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/catDog.jpg?tr=fo-dog](https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/catDog.jpg?tr=fo-dog)

![293x322 image](https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/catDog.jpg?tr=fo-dog)

> The output is an image containing just dog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output is an image containing just the dog.
```

{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Cropping dog with aspect ratio" %}
URL - [https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/catDog.jpg?tr=fo-dog,ar-1_1](https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/catDog.jpg?tr=fo-dog,ar-1_1)

![322x322 image](https://ik.imagekit.io/a1yisxurxo/catDog.jpg?tr=fo-dog,ar-1_1)

> The output is an square image containing dog by adding extra `width` as required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output is a square image containing dog by adding extra `width` as required.
```

{% endtab %}
{% tabs %}

#### Supported object list
We currently support all the objects included in the `COCO` classes. The object list is mentioned below:

> `person`, `bicycle`, `car`, `motorcycle`, `airplane`, `bus`, `train`, `truck`, `boat`, `trafficLight`, `fireHydrant`, `stopSign`, `parkingMeter`, `bench`, `bird`, `cat`, `dog`, `horse`, `sheep`, `cow`, `elephant`, `bear`, `zebra`, `giraffe`, `backpack`, `umbrella`, `handbag`, `tie`, `suitcase`, `frisbee`, `skis`, `snowboard`, `sportsBall`, `kite`, `baseballBat`, `baseballGlove`, `skateboard`, `surfboard`, `tennisRacket`, `bottle`, `wineGlass`, `cup`, `fork`, `knife`, `spoon`, `bowl`, `banana`, `apple`, `sandwich`, `orange`, `broccoli`, `carrot`, `hotDog`, `pizza`, `donut`, `cake`, `chair`, `couch`, `pottedPlant`, `bed`, `diningTable`, `toilet`, `tv`, `laptop`, `mouse`, `remote`, `keyboard`, `cellPhone`, `microwave`, `oven`, `toaster`, `sink`, `refrigerator`, `book`, `clock`, `vase`, `scissors`, `teddyBear`, `hairDrier`, `toothbrush`.

Reviewer: This is better suited as a table
